# OPLSS Audio-Visual Club

## A/V Equipment Inventory

We use the following audio-visual equipment to record each OPLSS session:

  * HD camcorder or digital SLR camera, plus its battery charger
  * tripod
  * wireless microphone (which the speaker wears)
  * headphones (to monitor the camera's audio input)
  * a set of rechargeable AA and AAA batteries, plus a charger
  * power strip (to charge batteries)
  * laser pointer

## Camera Operation Best Practices


### Pre-OPLSS rehearsal

At least one week prior to the first OPLSS session, the camera
operator should arrange a time with Jim to visit the rooms where OPLSS
will take place and rehearse recording a session. This is vital to
understanding each room's layout, lighting, and A/V control systems.

In 2018, we used the two large classrooms in the Knight Law building,
rooms 110 and 175. Knight Law has a dedicated A/V staff person. Ensure
that Jim invites this person to the rehearsal so you can ask
questions. Jim should bring the camera, microphone, and tripod.

You should do all of the following during the rehearsal session:

  * Mount the camera on its tripod
  * Connect the wireless microphone and headphones to the camera
  * Record someone speaking with the wireless microphone
  * The wireless microphone *will* occasionally fail due to battery
    exhaustion, accidental power-off, interference, and other
    unexpected circumstances. Practice unplugging the microphone,
    recording with the camera's built-in mic, and reconnecting the 
  * Monitor the recording with headphones

### Recording each session

Arrive at room at least 15 minutes prior to the session's start
time. Do all of the following during set-up:

  * Mount the camera to its tripod. Insert a fully-charged
    battery and charge the depleted battery.
  * Set the zoom, focus, white balance, and exposure compensation
  * Connect the wireless microphone and headphones. Power on the
    transmitter and check its battery level. If below 50%, replace the
    batteries.

Hand the transmitter to the speaker. If this is the speaker's first
session, offer the following advice:

  * The microphone is connected to the camera only, not the room's PA
    system. Speak at a normal lecture volume.
  * Attach the lapel clip to clothing between the neck and middle of the chest
  * Place the transmitter in a pocket or suspend from the belt clip
  * Please repeat questions asked by the audience

#### Common problems and solutions

When the wireless microphone fails due to battery exhaustion and other
unexpected circumstances, immediately unplug it and continue recording
with the camera's built-in mic. If the batteries in the mic's receiver
exhaust themselves, replace them as quickly and quietly as possible,
then reconnect the mic. If the problem lies with the transmitter, *do
not* stop the speaker: instead, address the issue after the session.

### Storing the A/V equipment

We store the the A/V equipment in a secure location when the A/V
manager is not present.  In 2018 at the Knight Law building, we stored
the equipment in locked equipment closets connected to the
classrooms. Jim was responsible for managing the key. As such, 

## Video Publishing Procedures

We publish the videos to two locations:

  * The University of Oregon's OPLSS site
  * The `OPLSS` YouTube channel

### Publishing to the OPLSS site

Jim is the only person with credentials on the University of Oregon's
OPLSS site. He prefers to do this every evening. Thus, the camera
operator should remove the data card from the camera and give it to
Jim at the conclusion of each day's sessions. Jim will upload the raw
video files to the OPLSS site.

Retrieve the card from Jim before recording the next day.

### Publishing to YouTube



I used `ffmpeg` to 
